- [Instructor] In our previous videos,
we have understood the concept of generics,
we have written some sample code with generics,
and during that process,
we used certain terms back and forth.
Let's clearly understand those terms
so, that it helps us going further in this course.
The first few terms are related to types.
First one, among them is generic types.
So, these are classes or interfaces
whose declaration consists of single or multiple parameters.
So, for example, it is the name of the interface,
List, in this case, followed by a pair of angle brackets,
and in between those angle brackets
you have a type parameter, which is E, in this case.
So, when you take this together, List of E,
that is one generic type.
List of E, extends collection of E.
So, collection of E, is another generic type
that has been defined in the Java APIs.
Let's also see the Map interface of Java APIs.
You read this as Map of K comma V.
Now, this Map generic type has two parameters defined.
One is K for the keys, and the other is V for the values.
So far, we have looked at generic types
from the inbuilt Java APIs,
but we can also write our own generic types,
which we will do in the next module.
The next term is parameterized types.
Each generic type defines a set of parameterized types.
When you invoke a generic type,
you create a parameterized type.
So, parameterized types are also names of classes
or interfaces, followed by a pair of angle brackets,
and in between those angle brackets
you mention the type argument that you pass
when you invoke the generic type.
So, for example, when you say List of String languages,
the part which says, List of String,
that is a parameterized type.
Languages in this case
is just a reference variable of the List type.
The next term is raw types.
Each generic type also defines a set of raw types.
Raw types are merely classes or interfaces that you write
without any type arguments.
So, if you mention in your code
just the name of the interface, likes say, List,
then we say that you created a raw type.
Let's rewind and go back to the non-generic code example
that we wrote in our previous video.
Let's go to the IDE.
And if you look at the Non-generics Code Class
on line number eight, we created a list of languages.
When we wrote this line,
we did not mention the angle brackets,
we did not mention any type arguments.
So, this is called a raw List or alternately, raw type.
Now, a fair warning, never use raw types in your code.
If you do, then you lose the benefits
of safety and expressiveness
that the generics concept comes along with.
Then the question is,
why do we even need these raw types in the language?
This is to support legacy code.
Let's understand this.
Before the advent of generics,
all the code in Java was written with raw types.
When the generics feature got introduced,
Java could not ignore that legacy code.
It could not do away with it.
Java needed to ensure that you can pass parameterized types
to methods with raw types and vice versa.
So, in order to maintain this compatibility
with the pre-generics code,
raw types exist in the language even today.
Today, if you write code with generics
and still continue to use raw types,
then the compiler is going to generate
a fair number of warnings.
You will have to sit through and solve
each one of those warnings,
to ensure that your code is truly safe
and does not have any potential problems at run time.
The next couple of terms
are with respect to parameters and arguments.
In one of our previous videos,
we had discussed the analogy
between method definition invocation
and generics definition and invocation.
So, whenever you define a method, you have parameters.
Whenever you invoke a method, you pass arguments.
Similarly, when you have a generics definition,
you do that with the help of type parameters.
And when you invoke a generic type, you pass type arguments.
Let's look at those couple of terms.
First one is Formal type parameters.
Alternately known as type parameters or type variables.
So, these are the place holders that you find
in the definition of your generic type.
So, for example, in List of E, E is the type parameter.
Type parameters are generally written
in single uppercase letters.
You must be wondering why have they labeled
the type parameter E in this case.
This is a part of the naming convention
that Oracle has laid out for the type parameters.
We will get to that in a bit.
The E that you see, the type parameter, is not a class,
it is just a placeholder, so it cannot be instantiated.
And then the other term is Actual type arguments,
alternately known as type arguments.
This is the concrete type that you pass
when you invoke a generic type.
So, for example, if you want to invoke
the List generic type, you could say, List of String,
and then the String here becomes the type argument.
Other than these terms,
let us also take a look at the diamond operator.
This operator was introduced as a part of Java version 1.7,
and it provides you a way to eliminate the need
for duplicate declaration.
For example, in this line of code,
List of String data equal to new ArrayList.
And then the word ArrayList
is followed by a pair of empty angle brackets,
and after that, you have the constructor call,
which is responsible for the object creation.
This pair of empty angle brackets
that are marked in red, is called the diamond operator.
Let's go and look at the generic code
that we wrote in our previous videos,
to understand this better.
So, let's go to the IDE,
and I will open the Generics Code Class.
On line number eight, we see that have a generics List,
and the type argument String has been mentioned
on both the sites of the assignment operator.
If you see, you have a warning
that the compiler is generating on the right hand side.
It says explicit type argument String
can be replaced with empty angle brackets.
So, this pair of angle brackets, which is empty
is the diamond operator.
So, let's go ahead and remove this type argument from here.
This is what diamond operator is for.
The diamond operator, will completely
eliminate the requirement
of declaring that type argument again on the right hand side
of the assignment operator.
This is because, since on the left hand side of the operator
we have already mentioned the type argument String,
the compiler has inferred
that it must be the same type argument
on the right hand side as well.
This process, by which the compiler infers
the type arguments, based on the context
is called type inference.
We will look at type inference in a little more detail
in a subsequent module.
There is one thing that we have to remember,
and that is we have to use these pair
of empty angle brackets, that is, the diamond operator.
If you remove it, then you will end up creating a raw List.
For example, the compilers already generated a warning
saying, raw use of parameterized class ArrayList.
Do not forget to use the diamond operator,
otherwise, you are still creating raw types.
So, I'll restore that angle bracket pair, and we are good.